Checkpoint #1: Project proposal Due by the end of week 8 (Nov. 27th, 23:59) (15 PTS)
Please share your final project proposal on this discussion board. A proposal only needs to be shared once by one of your group members. In the proposal, please indicate what you want to make by the end of this quarter, the targeting audience, the available datasets, the required multimedia (e.g., texts, images, videos, etc) if applicable, and the functions. It would be great if you can find one or two digital geographies-related projects that you can learn from. It will give the instructor and TAs a better idea of how to help you. The proposal needs to have at least 300 words and one or two screenshots of the available projects that you want to learn from. Once a project proposal is shared, I welcome any suggestions if you have, the TAs and the instructor will participate in the discussion too.

For our final project, we intend to use Mapbox’s Geocoding API to create a web app to help parents find information about local public and private schools in the Seattle area. The target audience will be parents with school age children. For parents looking to enroll their children in public school, the web app will be most useful to those looking to move to or relocate within the Seattle area as they can find information about which schools are available based on zip code or neighborhood. For parents interested in private schools, our web app can help them decide which school in the area best suits their needs. One example of a similar project we found was the schoolfinder application made by the Archdiocese of Oklahoma City. It enables users to search for Catholic schools in Oklahoma City and its surrounding suburbs. Some of its features that we hope to incorporate into our project include an interactive map of the area with pins indicating the location of each school, the ability to input city names, zip codes, or school names as search terms and return relevant schools, filtering schools by grade or age group, and the ability to click on each search result to display the map location, address, phone number, website link, and Google Maps link of the school. The screenshot below shows the results returned by entering a specific Oklahoma City zip code as a search term.  Other features we think would benefit our project include an ability to search by street address and school district and links to other relevant information such as school enrollment numbers, graduation rates, and class sizes.  For datasets, we have located feature layers and accompanying data tables released by Seattle City GIS Program showing the names, locations, phone numbers, grades served, and school districts of Seattle public and private schools as well as high school attendance areas in Seattle. To include further information that may be helpful to our users, we can refer to websites such as seattleschools.org and washingtonstatereportcard.ospi.k12.wa.us, which have entries on each school containing reports on demographics, discipline, expenditure, and student performance.


Geography-related project examples: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/viewer?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&ll=41.99011900000002%2C-87.95104999999998&spn=1.12278%2C0.920105&z=9&source=embed&mid=1c3TpQV6fxRVkRxFOabOmiLjiTLM

https://archokc.org/schoolfinder